add redesign and FAQ (#4)
kira-ex/docs: docs/ecosystem.md

---
id: ecosystem
title: Kira's Ecosystem
sidebar_label: Kira's Ecosystem
---

> ## Q1: "What are the possible roles in Kira Network ecosystem?"

Reviewer: I think quotation marks around the questions are unnecessary plus reduces readability

1. User - is a person who owns any whitelisted fee tokens, such as BTC, ETH, KEX etc,
and can interact with the exchange.
2. Delegator - is a user who owns stake-able assets and bonds them to the validator of
choice to secure the network.
3. Validator - is the exchange operator to whom stake-able assets are bonded thanks to

> which he can participate in the consensus and propose new blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validator - is the exchange network operator to whom stake-able assets are bonded thus he can participate and propose new blocks proportioned by staked KEX
```

Reviewer 2: voting power is not proportional to staked kex, in kira all validator shave equal voting power , lets just say 

Validator - is a Kira Hub operator to whom stake-able assets are bonded. Validators can participate in the consensus and propose new blocks for which they can claim commission fees along other rewards such as exchange fees which guarantee they can sustain operations and maitain the network operational.

4. Counselor - is a user that can participate in the governance process but does not
operate a validator node.

> 5. Hunter - node operator that verifies and confirms computation occurring on the exchange

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Hunter - node operator that guards the network for malicious activity by tracking activity on-chain.
```

Reviewer 2: Hunter - node operator that verifies and confirms computation occurring on the exchange zone thus guarding the network against malicious cartels and other undesired on-chain activity.

zones.

## Q2: How will delegators make money?

> Delegators are incentivised in block rewards, network fee rewards and exchange fee

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delegators are incentivized by block rewards, network fee rewards, and exchange fee
```
seems like grammatically correct

Reviewer 2: both are correct one is one is UK another US grammar, lets stick to Z

rewards. Block rewards are proportional to the stake bond (globally) while the network fee
rewards and exchange fee rewards are proportional to the stake bond to each particular
validator. The delegators are eligible to earn up to 50% of all exchange fees, while the remaining
50% is credited to validators. Delegators can bond any assets that are whitelisted as stake-able
and earn revenue from the exchange even if they do no own KEX token.

## Q3: How will validators make money?
Validators earn commission fees from block rewards that delegators receive. Commision

> fees for block rewards are defined individually by each validator, in range of 0% to 100%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fees for block rewards are defined individually by each validator, in range of 0% to 100%, presumably ~%10 as seen on most DPoS.
```

Furthermore each validator is eligible to 50% of all exchange and network fees from each block
proposed. Validators could also be delegators and self bond the profits they generate to gain
compound interest. Kira Hub validators with the highest uptime and stake bonded can be
elected as the exchange zone validators, which allows them to earn even greater revenues. In
case where the exchange zone will not be generating enough network and exchange fee
rewards, validators can be incentivized through the community pool and on-chain contacting
system to ensure that the exchange is operational under all possible market conditions.

## Q4: How do counselors make money?

> Counselors are incentivized by being able to lock their KEX tokens and earn revenue

Reviewer: This answer seems a bit vague without details of counselors. If there is an explanation on counselors, please add [relative reference](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet#links)

Reviewer 2: Counselors need incentives to be involved, one of the ways is allowing them to vest their already staked tokens and receive some small salary in proportion to amount of those tokens staked thus slightly decreasing the available supply and crating positive price pressure for KEX.

We can actually enforce it thanks to code of conduct that will exclude centralized exchanges and other entities from gov that allow "pooling" in order to make more revenue of this mechanism.
